Then you came back to College Station. I didn't
come back until after the first of the year. They
started, you might say, a new school year. Was this
new for all the classes? I know for the seniors. For
the seniors. I was wondering whether it was just
for the seniors. I don't remember about that. And
then you went until... We went until it was... Late
June, I believe. You had a regular commencement
after that. That's right. It was, we went some
longer than we normally would have. You remember,
was there, well, I guess it was almost all the
seniors that were off at this training camp, and so
they, the whole senior class came back sort of at
one time. That's about right, yes. A couple more
things about your school days, I noticed you were a
member of the Ross Volunteers. Yes, sir. Was that,
were that both junior and senior years? No, just
senior. Senior year. Yes. And at the time you were
there, how did one become a member of the Ross
Volunteers? By the election of the members that
were already in. And then did someone who was a
member of the Ross Volunteers then nominate you?
That's right. That's the way it worked. Then you
were chosen by election through those who were
there. That's right. What did the Ross Volunteers
do? Was it service to the school or to anybody?
Well, they didn't do very much. They were supposed
to be kind of a crack drill team, but I don't
remember that we did much drilling, at least the
year I was in it.
They'd just have a little party when they'd take in
some new members, you know, and go over to the, was
this, what was the Ross Valley, RV Hop? Well, that
was a dance. Yeah, I forgot that. Yes, it did. They
have a big dance once a year. You
didn't have a lot of extra drill then? No, not a lot.
In fact,
I was wondering, today I know the Ross Volunteers,
they march in certain parades, and they're always
at the Mardi Gras. I was wondering if, when you were
in the RVs, whether they did anything of that
nature? I can't recall that we did.
You sort of had an initiation party and a big dance.
Yeah, but the dance is really the big thing about
it, yes. I noticed you were also a member of the
Campus Club. Do you recall what that organization
was? I don't remember what that was.
I don't remember. I sure don't. And also the
chemical club, I imagine that was just all the
people who were either chemistry or chemical
engineering. That's right. The campus club, I
don't seem to recall what that might have been. One
incident that occurred while you were a student
that is of interest to us, that is primarily to my
assistant and me, is the incident of the branding
of the University of Texas steer in 1917. Do you
have any recollections of that? Wasn't that in the
fall of 15, when they branded 13 to nothing on it?
Well, I believe that was the 1915 score. That was. I
thought they branded the steer, I think it was. It
was the winter of 17, I believe, that they did that.
Well, they branded this 13 to nothing on a steer,
and I think it was the steer that Mast got for the
university. At least I've seen pictures of it.
Well, I understand that one of the people who
participated in the branding took pictures of it
after it was branded and sold them on campus for 25
cents apiece. I don't remember. It's a very
popular item. I think I've even seen it have in the
archives, as a matter of fact, a picture of
somebody's dormitory room with pennants all
around. And I believe there's a framed picture of
this branded steer on the wall, too. Is that the one
that had the 13 to nothing? 13 to nothing on the
side. That was in fall of 15 when that took place, I
think. I just hadn't mentioned this, having a
picture of a dormitory room with a lot of felt
pennants hanging around the wall. Was that a
fairly common thing? Yes. Lots of people decorate
their rooms in that nature? That's true, yes.
Now, going on from, say, your graduation in June of
1919, what did you do? after that? I mean did you
have a job by the time you graduated or did you then
go job hunting after? No, we were, there was a man
came down from the Empire Gas and Fuel Company
which is a subsidiary of City Service Company and
was recruiting people and there was about seven or
eight of us, I think, that
went up to work for them as a result of this
recruiting. Where did you go? You say you went up? I
went to Bartlesville, Oklahoma. That's where the
main office was at the time. And of course, from
there, after being there a period of time, we were
send out other jobs in the field. We were known as
junior engineers. What they did was to
give you as much general experience,
roustabouting or whatever it might be to give you
as good a background in the industry as you could
for period of two years. Most of us went on a regular
job before the two years was up, but two years was
supposed to be the length of the period when you
were designated as a junior engineer. Uh-huh, and
then after you became, after you stepped out of
this junior engineering status. You stayed with
this Empire Oil and Gas? The name of it was changed
after that to Empire Oil and Refining Company. And
then in later years, it now would be what's known as
City Service Oil Company. Where all did you work
for the Empire? The
first regular job that I had was in the
central dehydration plant
about nine miles south of Augusta, Kansas.
incidentally at that time the
hours were 12 hours a day seven days a week and when
you went to change shifts you worked 18 hours and
was off 18 hours and that put you on the night shift
to the day shift yeah that's right but uh what was
your pay or do you recall well it wasn't very high I
don't really recall. Do
you recall how long you stayed with Empire?
Well I stayed on that job for possibly
a year or two and then I
I was an assistant farm boss for possibly a year and
then I dressed tools on a clean out rig, cleaning
out the wells, something that happened to them,
you know, maybe the pipe had gotten Cuban gotten
fastened in there and he'd have to get it out or cave
in, he'd have to drill out the cavings and things
like that. Who did you work for after you left
Empire? I worked for White Eagle Oil and Refining
Company for about a year in the refinery at
Augusta, Kansas. And then where did you go after
that? After that I went back to the Empire
and went in the chemical department and I was in
charge of the field work and treating a, we had a bad
corrosion problem in both the Eldorado and
Augusta fields. And
we treated those wells with primarily caustic
soda. This was corrosion in the well pipes? Yes,
and the water was very corrosive with the oil in
those fields. So you had to do something so as not to
have to replace them? That's right, to at least
reduce the frequency. And I did that for
possibly a couple of years, I guess. And then they,
I was transferred to the production engineering
department and moved to Madison, Kansas, where
that's in Greenwood County. Madison is about 20
miles south of Emporia. to give you an idea where it
is. And there I was
all helped look after drilling in the wells and
what more thing that I did mostly was look after
repressuring with gas and then one little field up
there repressured with air, but most of it was with
gas to try to increase the recovery of oil.
And I was on that job when the
Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America, which
was
a joint effort by city service and several other
companies to build a pipeline from the Chicago
area down into this panhandle field where there
had been a large field of gas outlined and there was
at that time very little market for the gas because
there wasn't very many people living near the
field so this
pipeline was built and I was
hired when that work began and I came here to
Amarillo production engineer for that. That man
later became superintendent of production.
Was that Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America
previously called the Texoma Natural Gas? That's
right. Texoma Production Company I believe it
was. But it was always actually a part of the
natural gas pipeline company. I don't recall now
just why they for a number of years they had that
name changed but it was a purely a bookkeeping
thing it was all part of the natural gas pipeline
company all the time. And did you say the natural
gas pipeline company was something formed by
several other oil companies? Yes it was City
Service was a prime mover in it. The other
companies that were interested in it in the
beginning was the
company that then had
the distribution in Chicago. I don't remember
whether that was called People's Gas Company at
that time or not. Gaslight and Coke Company, I'm
not sure, but anyway, they had an interest, and
several of the other companies that had acreage in
this field, gas producing acreage, joined in the
beginning. Texas Company and Phillips, Skelly,
I
can't recall now any others.
But some of those companies were bought out by the
others early in the operation. And finally, the
people's company bought the city service and
became the sole owner of it.
So the natural gas pipeline company laid the
pipeline and also produced it. Did they also
produce the gas? That's right. A portion of the
gas, one of the interested parties was the company
that owned the Canadian River Gas Company and
instead of selling their gas rights to the new
company they had a contract to furnish a portion
which would I believe 25% of the requirements from
their own acres.
Your last job then with the natural gas pipeline
company was as superintendent of production.
Yes. Did you have then, in that capacity, you had a
sizable number of people working under you, did
you? Well, yes, good many.
At what point did you then leave the company. When I
got too old. Was that your decision that you were
too old or theirs? Well, they thought that I was.
They had a retirement system and a sort of a
compulsory retirement. At what age, at what point
then did you retire? At what year? At age 65. So that
would have been 64. That was in 1964, that's right.
And you just continued to live here in Amarillo?
That's right. Are you involved in any things in
Amarillo at the moment?
You mean working? Well, that or... Well, let's
say, for example, in College Station, a lot of the
retired faculty members do all kinds of services
for the community. Some of them serve in political
office and things of that nature. No, no. I do a
little bit of consulting work, but not enough to
amount
to anything. This would be in the area of chemical
engineering that you'd be consulting? Well, no.
This particular thing that I do is more in
connection with the price of gas.
My background during my time with the natural gas
pipeline company was largely
administrative in connection with the land and
also the production and had pretty good
exposure to what prices of gas were around here
Railroad Commission in Texas became quite
interested in it back a long time ago when there was
a law passed
known as the Hazelwood bill which allowed
carbon black companies to use sweet gas to
manufacture carbon black, provided they paid as
much as the pipelines paid. I don't remember the
wording of it, but that's the essence of it. And as a
result of that, it became necessary for the
commission to make a determination
that was provided in this Hazelwood bill, either
annually or semi-annually, about what the price
paid by the pipeline company was. So we had, and our
company, had already been making a computation at
the time that bill was passed.
because of a contract we had with one of our major
royalty owners, and we'd been doing that for our
own use for two or three years before then. So,
as long as I was with the company, I did
that for the commission as a representative of the
company. And then when I retired, major pipeline
companies asked me if I wouldn't go ahead and do
that for them as a consultant. So I did one or two
other jobs several years ago, but that's about the
extent of my work that I do once a year. What would
you say, I mean, you were involved in, say, the
production of natural gas for a goodly number of
years. Would be some of the major advancements or
developments, improvements in the field of
gasoline production? Natural gas production,
you mean?
I can't think of any. Was there
a more efficient system in 64 when you retired as
opposed to
the time when you started?
No, I can't think of any.
I don't, I don't really believe I can point to any
particular improvement. Was there perhaps some
some decrease in the amount that might have been
wasted? Oh well yeah there was a back before
long in the early 30s
when the
condition was just the reverse of what it is now.
People
had gas all over this place, I mean producers and
owners of production, and they had no market. And
we had a lot of lawsuits trying to force the
pipeline companies buy the gas from these people
and they hadn't provided acreage of their own and
didn't have enough market at that time to satisfy
their own royalty owners and so as a result of that
there was gasoline plants built and gas processed
and not even burned for carbon black, but blown
into the air. And at the time they got to where it
was, well I'd say an excess of a billion cubic feet a
day being blown to the air from this field. And we'd
have projects of inviting these legislators from
Austin and we'd take them on tours around through
the field, kind of like these outfits used to do,
trying to sell land or something. And finally, in
about 1935, well, they tightened up the statue
down in Austin and put a stop to that, but it was
Awful lot of gas. That is, put a stop to blowing it
into the air.
But before it was done, there was a terrible lot of
it blown into the air. Of course, it's kind of hard
to imagine that with conditions as they are now.
Yeah, it's sort of reversed from initially it was a
product looking for a market, and now it's a market
looking for a product. That's exactly right. It's
a complete 100% turnaround.
But it wasn't anybody's. I don't think it was any
individual's or company's fault. It was just a
condition that existed. But let me make sure I
understand you correctly. This was refined gas
that was being blown into the air. It wasn't
directly from the well. It was after it had been
through a gasoline. They did extract the
gasoline, but it was a low content gasoline. It was
just natural gas from which gasoline had been
extracted. They did that just because they didn't
have any if they left them. If they didn't do that,
well the well would be shut in and they wouldn't
have any revenue. to get that much revenue out of
it. So they were taking, if I understand it
correctly, the liquid gasoline from the natural
gas. Right, right. And the natural gas was being
just blown into the air. That's right. And the
liquid gasoline. And worse than that, it wasn't
even good gas for that purpose. It had a content of
about around three-tenths of a gallon per
thousand. And uh but there was a market for the
liquid. Yeah yeah but uh it was a pretty big waste to
to get that. Well was this liquid gasoline then
suitable for use in automobile engines or? Well no
it uh it was used mostly as a blending in a in a
refinery. It was probably used by refineries and
blendings. wasn't sold directly to the motoring
public.
Did you have any sort of outstanding experiences
or interesting things happen to you while you were
involved in all of the years of production?
I don't think I can recall. Is
the field of production limited to the area once
the gas is out of the ground and it does not involve
the drilling end of it, does it? Well, yeah, the
drilling is part of the production. Is part of the
production. Yeah. So
my particular responsibility, though, had to do
more with seeing that it was properly allocated
and
dealing with the royalty owners and things of that
kind. Did the oil and gas companies lease the
mineral rights or buy the mineral rights to land
instead of buying the land itself? You mean the
natural gas pipeline company? Yeah, well, you
were talking about royalties to property owners.
Yeah, well, the company had gas rights under oil
and gas leases, and all those oil and gas leases
were taken from landowners in which royalty was
reserved. So, yes, you had quite a little contact
with the royalty owners. Always wanting more
money, of course.